Those astrophysics packages—especially the full HEASoft suite, Fermitools, and the XSPEC data tables—pull down gigabytes of compressed files during installation. Once the environments are successfully built, those leftover installer files just sit on your drive wasting space.

Since you are using Miniforge, you can use mamba to clean this up incredibly fast. Here is the safest and most effective way to reclaim that space.
The "Clean Everything" Command (Recommended)

To aggressively clear out all the unnecessary installation debris without harming your actual working environments, run this in your terminal:
Bash

mamba clean --all

(You will be prompted to confirm y/N for a few different categories of files. You can safely type y for all of them).

Here is exactly what --all removes:

    Tarballs (-t): The compressed .tar.bz2 or .conda files that were downloaded. This is usually where you recover the most space (often several gigabytes).

    Unused Packages (-p): Extracted package files that are no longer linked to any of your active environments (like leftover dependencies from older updates).

    Index Cache (-i): The cached lists of available packages from the conda-forge and HEASARC channels.

Is it safe? Yes. This command explicitly checks what is currently being used by your environments (threeML, fermi, henv) and leaves those files strictly alone. It only deletes the orphaned and cached files.
Targeted Cleaning

If you prefer not to wipe the index cache and only want to delete the heavy downloaded files, you can run these specifically:

    Remove only downloaded archives: ```bash
    mamba clean --tarballs

    Remove only unused extracted packages:
    Bash

    mamba clean --packages

Tracking Down Massive Environments

If you run the clean command and still feel like Conda is taking up too much room, you can check exactly how much space each of your environments is using. Run this standard Linux command to check the size of your Miniforge folders:
Bash

du -sh ~/miniforge3/envs/*

This will print out a list of your environments and their sizes in gigabytes or megabytes, making it easy to spot if an old environment is hoarding space.

Running mamba clean --all every few months—or right after installing a massive suite like HEASoft—is a great habit to keep your CachyOS system lean!
