What limine-snapper-sync Does

Unlike GRUB, the Limine bootloader cannot natively read Btrfs partitions to find your snapshots.

To solve this, whenever your system takes a snapshot (like right before you update), limine-snapper-sync automatically kicks in. It takes the Linux kernel and boot files from that exact moment in time and copies them directly into your /boot partition (your EFI System Partition).

This allows Limine to see the snapshots so you can select them from a menu when you turn on your computer. If an update completely destroys your graphical interface, you just reboot, pick a snapshot from 5 minutes ago in the Limine menu, and your machine boots up exactly as it was.
The Pivot: Switching to Snapper

If you installed Timeshift earlier, remove it so the two tools don't fight each other, and ensure the native Snapper tools are installed:
Bash

paru -R timeshift timeshift-autosnap
paru -S snapper btrfs-assistant snap-pac

(Note: snap-pac is the hook that automatically takes a snapshot every time you install or update something via pacman/paru).
The Danger: The "85% Full" Boot Trap

There is one massive catch to this setup. Because limine-snapper-sync copies a ~150MB kernel and initramfs file for every single snapshot, your /boot partition will fill up incredibly fast. If it hits 100%, your system won't be able to update kernels anymore.

To prevent this, you must limit how many snapshots your system keeps.

How to configure it properly:

    Open Btrfs Assistant from your application menu (this is the official GUI CachyOS uses for Snapper).

    Go to the Snapper Settings tab.

    Set the Snapshot Limit: Find the "Number" limit and change it to something low, like 5 or 10 maximum.

    Disable Timeline: Uncheck the "Enable timeline snapshots" box. You only want snapshots taken when installing/updating things (which snap-pac handles), not every single hour, otherwise your boot drive will be flooded.

    Check the box for "Snapper cleanup enabled".

    Click Save, and then click Apply systemd changes at the bottom right.

How to Recover a Broken System

If disaster ever strikes, the recovery process is flawless:

    Turn on your PC and at the Limine menu, go into the Snapshots menu.

    Select a working snapshot and boot into it. (Your system will be in "read-only" mode).

    Once you hit your desktop, open Btrfs Assistant.

    Go to the Browse/Restore tab.

    Select the exact snapshot you just booted into and click Restore.

    Reboot your machine normally. You are now permanently rolled back and safe.

Do you know how large your /boot (EFI) partition is? (If it's the standard 512MB or 1GB, keeping that snapshot limit strictly around 5 is going to be mandatory to prevent it from filling up).
