Phase 1: Prepare the Host System

Because you are on CachyOS, we need to ensure the daemonless container manager (Podman) and the hardware map (CDI) are set up correctly before we even touch Distrobox or Boxbuddy.

1. Install the core tools natively (Do NOT use Flatpak):
Bash

sudo pacman -S podman distrobox nvidia-container-toolkit

2. Generate the CDI (Container Device Interface) map:
This tells Podman exactly how to route your Nvidia GPU into containers.
Bash

sudo nvidia-ctk cdi generate --output=/etc/cdi/nvidia.yaml

3. Install Boxbuddy natively:
Use your AUR helper to get the native GUI. Flatpak will block hardware access.
Bash

paru -S boxbuddy

Phase 2: The "Foolproof" Container Creation

Warning: Do not use the Boxbuddy GUI to create your Nvidia containers. The GUI’s "Nvidia Integration" toggle triggers Distrobox's native --nvidia bash script, which we discovered will permanently freeze on Arch's multilib packages.

Instead, we use Podman's CDI directly in the terminal to silently bypass the bug.

1. Wake up the GPU (The Hybrid Graphics Trick):
Because your GTX 1650 goes into a deep sleep to save battery, keep it awake during the initial build so Podman can see it. Open a separate terminal and leave this running:
Bash

watch -n 1 nvidia-smi

2. Create the container (The Bypass Command):
In your main terminal, run this exact command. Notice we drop the --nvidia flag and pass the CDI device directly to Podman using --additional-flags.
Bash

distrobox create --name ubuntu-dev --image ubuntu:22.04 --additional-flags "--device=nvidia.com/gpu=all"

3. Enter the container for the first time:
While your watch command is still running in the background, complete the final setup phase by entering the container:
Bash

distrobox enter ubuntu-dev

Once you see the green Ubuntu prompt, you can close the terminal running the watch command. The setup is permanently finished.
Phase 3: Post-Install Quality of Life Fixes

Because Distrobox shares your CachyOS home folder with the Ubuntu container, your fish shell will try to load CachyOS-specific files that don't exist inside Ubuntu.

1. Fix the Fish Config Error:
From either your host or inside the container, open your fish config:
Bash

nano ~/.config/fish/config.fish

Find the line that says source /usr/share/cachyos-fish-config/cachyos-config.fish and wrap it in an if statement so it only loads if the file actually exists:
Bash

if test -f /usr/share/cachyos-fish-config/cachyos-config.fish
    source /usr/share/cachyos-fish-config/cachyos-config.fish
end

Save (Ctrl+O, Enter) and exit (Ctrl+X).
